# CS360

## App Requirements and Goals
The goal of this app was to create an inventory management app that provided the user with an easy-to-use interface and overall smooth inventory management experience. The requirements were that the application must require the user to create an account and login to access their inventory. The inventory itself must allow for the adding, deleting, and editing of inventory items. Each item must have an editable quantity and if the user allows notifications then they must be given a notification when an item is running low.

The app is intended for users who want an easy to use, secure inventory management system which has a database that is stored locally to their device instead of online. This could be for company use or private use for collectors or just general organization. Regardless of the user's intended use for this application, I attempted to create a smooth interface that was intuitive with great functionality.

## Application Screens and UI
   I designed the application to first open up the login screen so the user must login or create and account before they can view their inventory. Once the user successfully logs in, they are directly brought to the inventory screen that is populated with their added inventory items or an empty list if they have not added any items. From their, the user can easily add an item by pressing the add item FAB that is in the bottom right of the screen. At the top right of the screen is an options button that, when pressed, brings the user to the settings menu (Currently there is only a settings option for toggling notifications on or off).

   The next screen the user may find themselves on is the edit item screen which appears when the user either presses the add item FAB or the edit item button on the item within the inventory list. This edit item screen allows the user to edit the name of the item and the quantity and comes with a save button at the bottom to save changes or a delete button to delete the item. If the delete button is pressed then the user is asked if they are sure and if the user presses yes again then the item is deleted and the user is directed back to the inventory screen. The user is also directed back to the inventory screen when they press the save button.
   
   I think the design of the UI of this app was successful because this is a utility app that revolves around managing an inventory. The inventory is the main screen and the user must login to access their secured inventory. The inventory items are directly editable from the inventory screen if they have already been added to the inventory and when they add an item via the FAB, the user is directed to the new item's page where they can edit the item. This overall design and the centering around the inventory screen makes for a smooth interface that is intuitive and focused around the true intent of the app.

## Design Approach & Info
I approached the process of coding my application by working on the code for each screen in the order in which the user would find themselves using it and the functions available. Functionality was my primary concern and I used clean code and good naming practices as well as thoroughly commenting out my code so that it would be easy to work on later in case I needed to fix a bug or add functionality. This can all be applied in the future on my projects to create good, well documented code that is easy to read and maintain for not only myself but any other developers that needs to work with my code. 

### Code Testing
I tested my code thoroughly and on each screen of the application. With the account page, I entered many different usernames and passwords to make sure that any constraints worked properly and to ensure that only properly authorized accounts could log in. With the inventory screen I tested it with many different items and quantities and ensured that duplicates could not be entered in and would alert the user that they were attempting to make a duplicate entry into their inventory. When something was buggy or not working properly I would add strings for each part of the process so that I new where it was going wrong and could more easily figure out and remedy the problem.

The testing process is very important to make a smooth, well functioning application such as this. Although as one person, I could not possibly know everything that a user might try to enter or do in my application and bugs might still persist, thoroughly testing my code is a must to get out all obvious bugs and oversights. A user is not likely to continue using a product that is buggy and unproffessional and so polish is a neccessity and only comes with thorough testing.

### Challenges
A few challenges did arise throughout the process of creating this app. Although I was able to get most all of the required functionality fairly easily, there was a little bit of problem with the notification system and databases. The issue with the notifications began with the fact that I was not going to require the user to enter their phone number although I needed to implemement and SMS notification system. Instead I implemented a toast notification system that alerted the user when an item was low. And although it functioned, it could have been done in a better way and is more of a placeholder to be fixed in a future update. As for my database, although it functions and the inventory list is displayed correctly along iwth all of it's items and they can be updated successfully, I should have set it up in a different way so that there was a better correlation between the inventories and the user accounts. Even though this is an application that is used locally and stored to the local device, which means that it is not the end of the world, this functionality will need to be implemented properly in a future update.

### Successes
I think the greatest success of my application that demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and experience is the overall UI design and the functionality of the inventory. The layout of my UI was clean, intuitive and minimalistic, which allows for a smooth user experience where they are not overwhelmed by the business of the screen. My inventory itself also functions great and each item can be edited directly from the inventory screen or on the edit item screen to really focus on changes for that specific item. The app  feels fairly polished with a slick look and that is my greatest success in this particular project.


